---
title: Special-agent GPG
layout: post
---

So my security context has me _trusting_ my own computers, *totally safe totally*, and not-trusting any server I didn't buy.
For arguments sake lets pretend I bought the University server, since at least their balls are in the vice.
But I dont trust Github, or [Dropbox](programming/2016/04/04/ssys5).

So GPG is pretty cool, and I'm either too lazy to write something better, or smarter than that, so lets wrangle this beast into submission.
Ideally I would like to keep only locked files on-disk, and reserve unlocked files to the *totally safe totally* world of in-memory.
Downside, my favourite text-editor doesnt play nice with FIFOs, and working out how to reverse-memmap is...tedious.
Good thing I trust my own file-system totally totally...

### Time for some funky command-line interception

Lets say i had a locked file `foo.gpg`.
Normally you have to `gpg foo.gpg; use foo` to get the thing, far to many keystrokes for an old arthrit like me.
Suppose instead that i could `use foo.gpg` and the utility could recognise which of its input files it has to decrypt so i can use them.

Hence `xgpg`, because xargs is totally a thing totally.

Simply look at the arguments of the command the user wants to run, work out which ones are gpg-encrypted files, and gpg-decrypt them before the user needs them.
We can even use `gpg-agent` to avoid those annoying password prompts, and theres that total total trust of my own machines again.
Some intricacies:

* User might supply non existant files, utility creates a new file for them to use
* Re-encrypt files if they are changed by command
    * Use the recipients from the old file if you can
    * For new files, user must specify the recipients
* Delete decrypted versions when the script exits

Some fun usages:

```Bash
xgpg vim foo.gpg     # Edit an encrypted file
xgpg cat foo.gpg     # Output decrypted contents to terminal
xgpg mv foo.gpg bar  # Decrypt-and move, which in effect steals a decrypted version
```

Unfortunately, my CL-foo is not enough to pass arguments within a bash script, so python implementation to the rescue.
I may have `subprocess.check_call`ed with `shell=True` in there, but the tainted string argument is a file (which must exist) and i escaped it with `pipes.quote()` so no biggie.

[Located here](https://github.com/scyptnex/bootstrap/blob/master/bin/xgpg)
